README.md, before:

# 			Show and Tell: A Neural Image Caption Generator
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/svaisakh/captioner/blob/master/LICENSE)
 
 [![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-python.svg)](https://forthebadge.com) [![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/60-percent-of-the-time-works-every-time.svg)](https://forthebadge.com)

an implementation inspired by the [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1411.4555) by [Oriol Vinyals](https://ai.google/research/people/OriolVinyals), [Alexander Toshev](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexander-toshev-9270726), [Samy Bengio](https://ai.google/research/people/bengio) and [Dumitru Erhan](http://www.dumitru.ca/).



![Results](assets/results.jpg)

## 					The Idea

![Model](assets/model.png)

![Model](assets/architecture.jpg)

We approach the problem in two stages:

1. ### Vision:

   A pre-trained CNN is used to extract the image features.

   In our case, we take a ResNet trained on ImageNet classification and detach it's head.

   The penultimate layer gives us the features.

   

2.  ### Language:

   A pre-trained word embedding is used to process and tokenize the captions.

   In our case, we use the ['en_core_web_lg'](https://spacy.io/models/en#en_core_web_lg) model from spaCy.

   This is then teacher-forced to an RNN which predicts the next word.

### Combining the two

The extracted features are treated as the initial hidden state of the RNN.
In order to match the dimensionality, it's first sent through a Linear layer and reshaped.

On the basis of this conditioning, the model generates it's hidden states which are further sent through a Linear layer of dimension ```vocab_size```.

Thus, at each timestep, we have a score for each possible word.

We treat this like a classification problem and use the categorical cross-entropy loss to match it to the desired _label_ at each timestep.

### Sampling

We use beam search to sample the most likely caption at evaluation time.

## Using this repo

There are three ways you might want to use this project.

1. **Learn**: To follow along with the Jupyter Notebooks, go to the [notebooks](notebooks/) folder.
2. **Apply**: To execute on the command line, go to the [captioner](captioner/) folder.
3. **Serve**: To serve the model as a flask microservice, go to the [server](serve/) folder.

[![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/built-with-love.svg)](https://forthebadge.com)

Commit message:

Add Link to Pretrained Model

README.md, after:

# 			Show and Tell: A Neural Image Caption Generator
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/svaisakh/captioner/blob/master/LICENSE)

 [![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-python.svg)](https://forthebadge.com) [![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/60-percent-of-the-time-works-every-time.svg)](https://forthebadge.com)

an implementation inspired by the [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1411.4555) by [Oriol Vinyals](https://ai.google/research/people/OriolVinyals), [Alexander Toshev](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexander-toshev-9270726), [Samy Bengio](https://ai.google/research/people/bengio) and [Dumitru Erhan](http://www.dumitru.ca/).



![Results](assets/results.jpg)

## 					The Idea

![Model](assets/model.png)

![Model](assets/architecture.jpg)

We approach the problem in two stages:

1. ### Vision:

   A pre-trained CNN is used to extract the image features.

   In our case, we take a ResNet trained on ImageNet classification and detach it's head.

   The penultimate layer gives us the features.

   

2.  ### Language:

   A pre-trained word embedding is used to process and tokenize the captions.

   In our case, we use the ['en_core_web_lg'](https://spacy.io/models/en#en_core_web_lg) model from spaCy.

   This is then teacher-forced to an RNN which predicts the next word.

### Combining the two

The extracted features are treated as the initial hidden state of the RNN.
In order to match the dimensionality, it's first sent through a Linear layer and reshaped.

On the basis of this conditioning, the model generates it's hidden states which are further sent through a Linear layer of dimension ```vocab_size```.

Thus, at each timestep, we have a score for each possible word.

We treat this like a classification problem and use the categorical cross-entropy loss to match it to the desired _label_ at each timestep.

### Sampling

We use beam search to sample the most likely caption at evaluation time.

## Using this repo

There are three ways you might want to use this project.

1. **Learn**: To follow along with the Jupyter Notebooks, go to the [notebooks](notebooks/) folder.
2. **Apply**: To execute on the command line, go to the [captioner](captioner/) folder.
3. **Serve**: To serve the model as a flask microservice, go to the [server](serve/) folder.



## Pre-trained Model

A pre-trained model is available [here](https://s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/captioner/model.pt).

The hyperparameters are the defaults in the repo.

Place it in the [checkpoints](checkpoints/) directory and you're good to go.

[![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/built-with-love.svg)](https://forthebadge.com)
